# STOCK_MARKET_ANALYSIS_AND_PREDICTION
The presented project “Stock Market Analysis and Prediction” provides the framework of how stock price predictions can be done utilizing machine learning algorithms. Using Apple’s (AAPL) stock data from 2020 to 2023, the research re-employs conventional approaches which include Linear Regression, Decision Tree, Random Forest and advanced approaches comprising of Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) neural networks. TextBlob used for sentiment analysis improves the predictive model by including the sentiment prevalent in the market.

Random Forest stood out as the best algorithm given an RMSE of 13.04 while the next best performer was Decision Tree given a RMSE of 13.38. However, the current LSTM model has been found to have high error levels hint at the need to solve for the optimization problem. The results of the sentiment analysis proved valuable and were tangible The results of the sentiment analysis were useful by highlighting a proximity between the different scores and the stock price.

The findings of the project focus on the advantageous of ensemble models when addressing non-linearity and possibilities of the hybrid strategy. Telecommunication tools proved useful for presenting trends and even performance of models towards making decisions. That is why, while traditional models are already showing high accuracy, the availability of new-generation deep learning architectures and more efficient preprocessing methodologies can help pave the way to further gains. The efficient use of machine learning, sentiment analysis, and sound evaluation that has been presented in this work shows that it’s possible to develop effective stock market forecasting.
